A case to in this video we're going to be looking up the Month function and what the Month function
does is it extracts the month from a date or date time data type.
So you can see here we've got a escrowed query which was similar to that date query in our last video.
So we're just going to select the month from this date.
So if we run this you can see just returned 6.
So this is 2018 June of 0 5 0 6 0 5 and it's just returned the month which is 6.
So June and we can also add a time to this day set aside a 745 32 so it's now a date time data type
and if we run this again you can see it just returned 6 so it just returns the month of June.
So now we've seen what the Month function does on a string.
Let's start using some of our data from those cinema booking system database.
So again less selects start time from screenings start time column in the screenings column is all Wrone
dates in the whole database so we're going to have to use it again.
And you can see returns dates and time as is the date time data type.
But if we were to copy this query and paste it and then apply the function to the start time column.
So I select month from start time from the screenings table.
You can see it just returns the month of October so the month for each entry in the screenings table.
And if we scroll down you can see that all 10 because we only actually have entries for October 2017
in our screenings table.
And we can also use the Month function in the WHERE clause.
So for instance if we needed to know all the screenings from October we can actually write a query where
we can select store from screenings
where month start time
is equal to 10.
So this is where months start time is equal to 10.
So equal to October and you can see it's returned all the screenings data for the month of October.
Now if we had a Pfui years data in our screenings table or in our database we could start using our
money.
So if we wanted to date from April we could change this 10 to a 4 if we wanted it for August we could
change it to an A.
And that's how we can select data by month from tables but we only have data from August from October
so we can only select from screenings where months start time is equal to 10.
And this is a lot simpler than what we were doing before.
I remember I asked you to select some data for the month of October and we would have had to done an
escrow query which contains start time it's between the first of October and the thirty first of October
which is a very long query and you can see here we just need to say where month start time is equal
to 10 and that's going to return all the data from October.
Now imagine if we had years and years of data in our database this month function without she returned
all the data from October not just 2017 but if we had it for the last 10 years it would return it for
2016 2015 2014 cetera et cetera.
Any date that has the month as 10 is going to return that data.
So in the next video we're going to be looking at dealing with the year.